# Language Development for Leveling-up Decentralized Data Marketplaces

Decentralized data marketplaces like the one developed by the Ocean Protocol
represent an emerget economic & technical field. Most importantly, though, they
pose a significant challenge for users when communicating. The concept of data
as a new asset class is so recent that the actual language used to communicate
concepts hasn't caught up with the field's technological advances yet.

It is, hence, our conviction that the language about data being a novel asset
first has to be explictly developed and discussed, before it can find applience
in practice.

With this document, here at rugpullindex.com, we want to help drive forward the
concept of decentralized data marketplaces through creating and maintaing this
document.

The criteria we use to evaluate this document's quality, shall be that it
allows a technically-sophisticated reader to get a precise overview over the
terms and language used in decentralized data marketplaces. Ideally, separate
sections of this document are directly linkable on the web and the document
itself is default-alive, meaning that anyone ought to edit and expand it.

## Glossary

### Data

There's no consensus on the word "data". Most commonly, it is used as a noun,
however. Generally, there's a variety of usage surrounding the word, some of
which we want to enumerate here:

"Data" can be seen as the plural from of "datum", where "datum" commonly
represents a a recorded value of some sort. In German, the word "datum"
literally means "date", e.g. "2021-11-18", so indeed multiple "datum" are
"data", e.g. "2021-11-18,2021-11-19,...".

In the emerget tech world, the term "data" is often used when talking about the
information stored or extracted from individuals using e.g. social media sites.
The saying that, "If you're not paying for the product, you're the product"
tries to imply that free usage of e.g. facebook.com is subsidized for the user
by extracting their "personal data" for commerical use.

Already through framing the last paragraph, it's clear that the term data was
used in particular ways: "extracting data", "personal data", "data is
information", "data can be stored", "data is valuable?"

### The Form of Data

In all of the above sections, it has not become apparent "what data looks
like." Is it useful to represent data as a tangible structure and think of it
as e.g. a material box? After all, a box full of e.g. patient folders at a
doctor's office could be called "data".

Certainly, that framing is a valid one. But additionally, e.g. the number of
daily or weekly COVID-19 infections could be declared being "data too".
However, in their case, thinking of a tangible, material structure is far more
difficult.

In newspaper article, this type of data, also called the incidence, is often
represented as a function plot where the time dimension is uniformly laid out
on the x-axis and the number of cases are shown on the y-axis.

We call this form or type of data "time series" as the production of datum's
happened in relation to time. Practically speaking, in the case of COVID-19
incidence data, the responsible data maintainer would count all cases of
infection for one day before adding a new point to the chart representing all
commulative new values of the day.

Similarly, when for example "sampling" a thermometer to learn more about a
room's temperature throughout a year, we'd define the sampling rate of our
temperature signal as the amount of measurements per time unit. For example,
the unit of Hertz (Hz) is used to define the frequency of measurement. 1 Hz is
one measurement per second, meaning that we could sample the room's temperature
at 1 Hertz - once a second.

But it's not necessarily to strictly record data in dependence of time.

During the parlamentarian vote in a democratic society, the people delegate
their voice to representatives through voting. The subsequent count of votes is
usually represented as the proportional amount of votes a representative
managed to get. If e.g. two candiates (A and B) are running, then a potential
result is "A: 51% and B: 49%".

Here, neither datum "A:51%" nor "B:49%" is recorded in dependence of time.
However, the count's result can still be considered data.

Furthermore, as displayed in the popular use case for data, in self driving
cars, "data" may be represented not only in text for either but higher level
media. It's commonly portrait that "to solve self-driving cars", lots of
diverse video footage has to be captured about all kinds of unique driving
conditions to make self-driving cars safer.

In that case, the recorded datums may have many varying degrees of relevant
dimensions, to elaborate those would bust the scope of this document.

And going back to our original question about whether data should be
represented as a tangible, material object - in the case of self-driving car
data, is it helpful?

## Relevancy of Data

Data, as other information has a quality we herein call "relevancy." It defines
the usefulness and applicability of the data within the temporal or situational
context.

Data about US voters in the 2016 election has commonly been made out to be
"highly relevant" in influencing the vote's outcome and potentially upfront
manipulating voters. Known as the "Cambridge Analytica Data Set", it was
described as predictive for the persuasibility of certain voters in the United
States.

It was later argued, that indeed the same data set was also used to a degree in
the UK's Brexit referendum.

In both cases, we'd say that Cambridge Analytica's data set was highly relevant
for pursuaiting voters in the UK and US. This quality, we believe, is important
to highlight as it portraits specificity.

## Is Data Heterogeneous?

Looking at the data offerings of the Ocean Protocol Marketplace today, we can
easily see their variability. Behind QUICRA-0 seems to be the promise of an
ever-growing data set through unionizing data annotation workers, whereas
LUMSTA-42 can potentially represent a clearly tangible `.zip` or `.csv` file
containing a list of all products from amazon.com in 2018.


Other popular online marketplaces like Uber, AirBnB or Lyft don't share this
type of offering. Neatly, their markets are divided in suppliers and consumers,
with - in the case of Uber and Lyft - all offerings being homogenious, hence,
equal or fungible. 

In theory, which one of the many Uber taxis you get must not make a difference
in service quality. Or at least that's Uber Inc's designated goal.

AirBnB's marketplace is somewhat similar in that AirBnB Inc's goal is to
guarantee a threshold of quality to any consumer. They make sure that "what you
book is what you get."

Famously, the story for AirBnB goes that demand increased when Paul Graham
suggested AirBnB's founders to improve the site's pictures that are shown to
potential customers.

As the quality for an AirBnB can greatly vary given e.g. an offer's pricing, to
improve the market's quality, Paul Graham righly suggested creating more
transparency within the market to ease consumer's decision making. The idea
being that in the ideal case a consumer knows "everything" and its price about
an apparentment, then they are more capable of making a decision compared to
when they know only the price but nothing else.

Similarly, we believe, an distinction about a data's quality and the associated
risk why buying it has to be made. Today's data on today's Ocean Marketplace is
extremely heterogenius: There are not two alike data sets.

Compared to some of the quoted prices, the level of due diligence data
consumers are capable of doing is low and hence the risk of "buying a cat in a
bag" is high.


## Forms of Manipulation

### Mining

### Extracting

### Storing

### Accessing

### Writing

### Reading

### Deriving

### Publishing
