## Generating valuable insights from speaking with RPI users
### June 25, 2021

#### Long time listener, first time caller

I only just entered the blockchain world professionally having watched closely
from the sidelines for a number of years.

I've worked in corporate Advertising and Tech consultancies over the last 10
years and tried my hand in a number of different startups.

I recently joined the Ocean DAO and met Tim. I could see that what he was doing
would be successful if Ocean is successful and while the index was technically
sound, I knew I could contribute to its development by helping to round out
Tim's strong technical skillset by paying special attention to user's needs.

#### The Approach

Firstly, I wanted to identify the opportunity available to the index and answer
the following questions; 

##### How were users using it and how where they thinking about it?

Knowing this gives us a much clearer idea of what we're building and why we're
building it. Opinions are great, but it's better to have actual feedback from
real users. That way you know you're building something for real people and not
just building the thing you want to build (something I've been guilty of doing
in the past!).

##### We collected 77 pieces of feedback from users

Some were simple suggestions like 'I think you should change the name' while
others were more illuminating and got to the core value proposition from the
user's perspective like, "I don't currently use the site because I'm not
looking to invest in data tokens."

After adding all 77 one liners to a spreadsheet I went through and tagged an
associated theme to each piece of feedback (e.g. Risk, Education, Marketing
etc).

##### A macro trend emergered where 64% of comments were 'investment' related, 16% were 'educational' while 20% were 'other'.

I made a note of these finding and plan to feed them into marketing initiatives
and prioritisation decisions in the future. 

##### Unearthering new ways to help users

After digging deeper into the findings it became clear that an imediate
opportunity exists to help users make better $OCEAN staking decisions. 

I personally wouldn't have seen this as being RPI's primary opportunity to
begin with but approaching users with an open mind and enabling insights to
emerge from speaking with them is a great way to unearth hidden jems.

The secondary objective was to help users make better data token investment
decisions which was more in line with my expectations.

##### Sorting the wood from the trees

After breaking the raw user feedback data down further I identified 9 key
action items.  

I then added these to the table below and prioritised them using the [RICE
prioritisation
framework](https://blog.intercom.io/rice-simple-prioritization-for-product-managers). 

![](rice1.png)

This helped us identify the relative priority of the various tasks at hand and
plan accordingly. 

The 9 items have been broken down further into a Now, Next, Later table
enabling us to be clear on the areas of focus. 

![](rice2.png)

It's unlikely we will follow this table completely as things will inevitably
change over time. However, this does give us a great foundation to build upon
and start delivering value to users soon. 

Tim was able to publish an [article](specification)
explaining how the ranking algortihm works already. You may need a PhD in
Mathematics to understand it but that's besides the point.

We've got more work to do in order to break down these one liners into
actionable user stories. For now though, we have a new and refined focus -
helping users make better $OCEAN staking and datatoken investment decisions.

...watch this space.

*Written by: Scott Milat*
